Doc/severity/v6 (#9209)
OISF/suricata: SECURITY.md

# Security Policy

Being a security tool itself, the security of Suricata itself is naturally of
great importance. This document describes the policy around security issues.

## Severity Levels

We will determine the severity of each issue, taking into account our
experience dealing with past issues, versions affected, common defaults,
and use cases. We use the following severity categories:

* **CRITICAL** Severity. This affects Tier 1 features that are enabled by default
where the issue disrupts availability of the service, leading to severe

> loss of visibility and/or availability. RCE, remotely triggerable traffic

Reviewer: Should we remove RCE if we describe more precisely remotely triggerable traffic based crashes ?

Author: I feel it's a separate class of issues that we can mention separately here.

Author: not sure, seems more specific than we need to be?

Reviewer: So, I do not understand what is meant here by "RCE".

Is arbitrary file write with datasets rule RCE to you ?

Anyways, I think this deserves something more precise than an acronym (and one that is notoriously vague)

based crashes, or evasions with a wide scope are considered to be in-scope
for this severity. These issues will be kept private and will trigger a new
release of all supported versions. We will attempt to address these as soon
as possible.

* **HIGH** Severity. This includes issues that are of a lower risk than critical,
perhaps due to being disabled by default Tier 1 or affecting Tier 2 and

> Community features, or which are less likely to be exploitable. These issues

Reviewer: For examples, trigger able through rules instead of network traffic.

Other question : What about memory leaks ? 
I understand that every impact is equal : evasion, crash from NULL Deref or use after free, memory leak, quadratic complexity. What matters is the feature where the bug resides. Do,I get it right ?

Author: Mem leaks eventually would affect availability or visibility (if we don't free up memcap for example).

I think indeed the location of the issue is often the most important, but probably also things like: single packet issue? Complex interaction between evil client and evil server? Etc.

Reviewer: Ok, so risk = impact * probability

Impact is equivalent for most classes of bugs.

And probability = tier of bug's location * complexity for the attacker

will be kept private and will trigger a new release of all supported versions.
We will attempt to keep the time these issues are private to a minimum; our
aim would be no longer than a month where this is something under our control.

* **MODERATE** Severity. This includes issues like crashes or evasion in Tier 2 and
Community features that are not enabled by default. These will in general be
kept private until the next release, and that release will be scheduled so
that it can roll up several such flaws at one time.

* **LOW** Severity. This includes issues such as those that only affect the
Suricata command line utilities, or unlikely configurations. These will in

> general be fixed immediately in latest development versions, and may be

Reviewer 2: Could we:
```suggestion
general be fixed as soon as possible in latest development versions, and may be
```

backported to older versions that are still getting updates. We will

> update the vulnerabilities page and note the issue CVE in the changelog

Reviewer: What is the vulnerabilities page ?

Author: removed this language

> update the vulnerabilities page and note the issue CVE in the changelog

Reviewer 2: Will there always be a CVE?

Author: no, update the language a bit

and commit message, but they may not trigger new releases.

## Support Status of affected code

4 levels are defined: Tier 1, Tier 2, Community and Unmaintained.

> These are documented in https://docs.suricata.io/en/latest/support-status.html

Reviewer: This is currently 404

Reviewer 2: I think that that's because it's added with this PR.

## Reporting Issues

For reporting security issues, please use `security@oisf.net`.

If you report a security issue to us, please share as much detail about the issue
as possible: pcaps, attack scripts, potential fixes, etc. If you share pcaps or
other data, please clearly state if these can (eventually) enter our public CI/QA.

> We assign a severity and will share our assessment with you.

Reviewer 2: nit:
```suggestion
We will assign a severity and will share our assessment with you.
```
